# HANDWRITTEN-CHARACTER-RECOGNITION
HANDWRITTEN CHARACTER RECOGNITION
In todays’ world advancement in sophisticated scientific techniques is pushing further the limits of human outreach in various fields of technology. One such field is the field of character recognition commonly known as HCR (Handwritten Character Recognition).
 
In this fast-paced world, there is an immense urge for the digitalization of printed documents and documentation of information directly in digital form. And there is still some gap in this area even today. HCR techniques and systems are trying to fill this gap. This project is about devising an algorithm for the recognition of hand-written characters also known as HCR (Handwritten Character Recognition) leaving aside types of OCR that deals with the recognition of computer or typewriter printed characters.
 
Due to the increased usage of digital technologies in all sectors and in almost all day to day activities to store and pass information, Handwriting character recognition has become a popular subject of research. Handwriting remains relevant, but people still want to have Handwriting copies converted into electronic copies that can be communicated and stored electronically.
 
 Handwriting character recognition refers to the computer's ability to detect and interpret intelligible Handwriting input from Handwritten sources such as touch screens, photographs, paper documents, and other sources. Handwriting characters remain complex since different individuals have different handwriting styles. This paper aims to report the development of a Handwriting character recognition system. The development is based on an artificial neural network, which is a field of study in artificial intelligence. Different techniques and methods are used to develop a Handwriting character recognition system. However, few of them focus on neural networks. The use of neural networks for recognizing Handwritten characters is more efficient and robust compared with other computing techniques. The paper also outlines the methodology, design, and architecture of the Handwriting character recognition system and testing and results of the system development. The aim is to demonstrate the effectiveness of neural networks for Handwriting character recognition.
